# Loading and Accessories

{% hint style="danger" %}
To prevent an accident, use extreme care when adding and riding with accessories and cargo. Addition of accessories and cargo can reduce a motorcycle's stability, performance and safe operating speed. Never ride an accessory-equipped motorcycle at speed above 130&nbsp;km/h \(80&nbsp;mph\). And remember that this 130&nbsp;km/h \(80&nbsp;mph\) limit may be reduced by installation of non-Honda accessories, improper loading, worn tyres and overall motorcycle condition, poor road or weather conditions. These general guidelines may help you decide whether or how to equip your motorcycle and how to load it safely.
{% endhint %}

## Loading

The combined weight of the rider, passenger, cargo and additional accessories must not exceed the maximum weight capacity:

* 180&nbsp;kg \(396&nbsp;lbs\) ... E, G, F, SP, AR, IT, II G, II IT
* 171&nbsp;kg \(377&nbsp;lbs\) ... SW

Do not exceed the following cargo weight limit for the rear carrier:

* 9.0&nbsp;kg \(20&nbsp;lbs\)

Overloading the rear carrier will adversely affect stability and handling.

1. Keep cargo weight low and close to the center of the motorcycle. Load weight equally on both sides to minimize imbalance. As weight is located further from the motorcycle's center of gravity, handling is proportionally affected.
2. All cargo must be secure for stable handing. Recheck cargo security frequently.
3. Do not attach large or heavy items \(such as a sleeping bag or tent\) to the handlebars, fork, or fender. Unstable handling or slow steering response may result.

## Accessories

You are personally responsible for proper selection, installation, and use of non-Honda accessories. Always follow the guidelines under Loading, and these:

1. Carefully inspect the accessory to make sure it does not obscure any lights, reduce ground clearance and banking angle, or limit suspension travel, steering travel or control operation.
2. Luggage racks are for lightweight items. Bulky items may snag on a tree or other nearby object causing loss of control.
3. Do not add electrical equipment that will exceed the motorcycle's electrical system capacity. An electrical failure could cause a dangerous loss of lights or engine power at night, far from help.

